---
title: "Day 2"
layout: post
---

<!-- # Day 2: 2nd Jan 2020 -->

## 1. Intro to Fin. Mgmt

Course Drive link - <tinyurl.com/BM40002-spring-2019-20>

```text
Prof. CS Mishra
csmishra@vgsom.iitkgp.ac.in
E 202. VGSoM, IIT Kharagpur
```

(Revision) Types of decisions:

1. Financial - Related to the financing of the company. Can be obtained by shareholders or borrowed capital.
2. Investment - Long term
3. Working Capital - Short term
4. Dividends - The returns from running the business. How to use the dividends. Whether to reinvest in the business or to return to the stockholders.

Financial Statements are like performance cards of organizations. It shows the organizational health.

_Note_: Bankruptcy etc. are not sudden events. Early indicators are present in the fin. statements.

Entities interested in org. health:

1. Supplier
2. Customer
3. Shareholders
4. Competitors
5. Government
6. Employees
7. Financial Advisors and analysts, etc.

Misc. Notes in the order of teaching:

- Buyer-seller dissatisfaction is the reason for market fluctuations.

- Auto salesman example --> [Information Asymmetry][info asymmetry] --> [Theory of Lemons][lemon theory]

Akerlof got Nobel Price in Economics for this theory.

Financial Statements helps resolve the information asymmetry.

Concepts in Accounting:

1. Separate entity concept
2. Dual aspect concept

Accounting equation

```text
E + L = A
```

Forms of business organization:
(In terms of Ownership)

1. Sole Proprietorship
   - Companies Act, 2013: OPC (One Person Company)
2. Partnership
   1. Unlimited Liability
   2. Limited Liability Partnership
3. Company --> Limited Liability

Private Limited - Closely held - max_limit

Public - Openly held - no upper limit

Organizational Growth

## 2. Bioinfo Lab

Mark distribution

- Exam (40%)
- Lab Notebook (20%)
- Attendance (20%)
- Viva (20%)

### Lab Notebook

1. Title of expt.
2. Materials and Method - Flowcharts
3. Results
4. Discussion (if applicable)

Ubuntu basic file structure

[Protein data bank](rcsb.org)

Terminal basic commands:

```bash
mv      :- move
cp      :- copy
ls -ltr :- list long, time, reverse
```

### vi editor

1. Insert mode (i)
2. Escape mode (esc)

Basic Commands. See [cheat sheet][vi cheat sheet].

```bash
vi
:nu
:set nu
shift + A
yy
p
dd
:w
^z
```

## 3. PCTC - SD

How to make money out of biotechnology? Think about practical aspects and applications.

Focus on keywords. If a question is for 10 marks, write 5 keywords.

1. Tissue Culture fundamentals
2. Plant regeneration
3. Somatic embryogenesis
4. Somaclonal variation
   1. Genetic basis
   2. Application in crop improvement
5. Advantages
6. Current status
7. Reality and potential

<!-- Links -->

[lemon theory]: https://youtu.be/soME4X4btCg "Lemon Theory in Economics"
[info asymmetry]: https://youtu.be/TiP3uGu_530 "Information Asymmetry"
[vi cheat sheet]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1eFLB68NNr_y3UHQr-Dsd3e32Rkjt28DQ "vi cheat sheet by go squared"
